---
title: "Hurricane Song"
date: '2024-10-04'
layout: 'single'
featured: true
---

I stepped out onto my back porch around 10:00 to watch the wind and rain continue to billow as Hurricane Helene moved through my area in the Upstate of South Carolina. We lost electricity around 6:30 that morning, but I had the coffee made so it didn’t feel desperate. Then the phone and therefore browsing service got spotty and eventually disappeared. Desperate is a relative term. One of our trees had fallen onto our fence and into our neighbors yard and I dreaded assessing the damage. My dad was out of town leaving my mom at their house on her own. I worried about the water rising on their property. I wondered how much longer the charges on our phones would last. I couldn’t get on the power company’s website to see if there was an estimated restoration time. Were our relatives in Georgia doing alright? Had my friend Sally’s trees near her house come down in the wind? Was the playdate my daughter had planned with her soccer teammates for this afternoon going to be able to happen? What if power didn’t come back on for days? How long does food last in a freezer without electricity? What about the research I had planned for the day? What about the assignments I had due? Why hadn’t I ordered more of the books I needed to read for my classes? Why hadn’t I made the kids shower last night? Were any of my texts even getting through? Dread in the storm.

Birdsong. Inexplicable birdsong. I stared at the tree that looked like it must hold the source of the song. Every single leaf twisted and whirled in the wind. How was the bird holding on? Where could it be tucked away and secure? The beautiful warbling cadence continued. My untrained ear guessed it must be a mockingbird. So many calls and songs following each other. Unhurried. Unflustered. Just singing in the storm.